federalist 78
the judiciary department
hamilton
to the people of the state of new york
we proceed now to an examination of the
judiciary department of the proposed
government
in unfolding the defects of the existing
confederation the utility and necessity
of a federal judicature have been
clearly pointed out
it is the less necessary to recapitulate
the considerations they are urged as the
propriety of the institution in the
abstract is not disputed the only
questions which have been raised being
relative to the manner of constituting
it and to its extent to these points
therefore our observations shall be
confined
the manner of constituting it seems to
embrace these several objects
first the mode of appointing the judges
second the tenure by which they are to
hold their places
third the partition of the judiciary
authority between different courts and
their relations to each other
first as to the mode of appointing the
judges this is the same with that of
appointing the officers of the union in
general and has been so fully discussed
in the two last numbers that nothing can
be said here which would not be useless
repetition
second as to the tenure by which the
judges are to hold their places this
chiefly concerns their duration in
office the provisions for their support
the precautions for their responsibility
according to the plan of the convention
all judges who may be appointed by the
united states are to hold their offices
during good behavior which is
conformable to the most approved of the
state constitutions and among the rest
to that of this state
its propriety having been drawn into
question by the adversaries of that plan
is no light symptom of the rage for
objection which orders their
imaginations and judgments the standard
of good behavior for the continuance in
office of the judicial magistracy is
certainly one of the most valuable of
the modern improvements in the practice
of government
in a monarchy it is an excellent barrier
to the despotism of the prince in a
republic it is a no less excellent
barrier to the encroachments and
oppressions of the representative body
and it is the best expedient which can
be devised in any government to secure a
steady upright and impartial
administration of the laws
whoever attentively considers the
different departments of power must
perceive that in a government in which
they are separated from each other the
judiciary from the nature of its
functions will always be the least
dangerous to the political rights of the
constitution because it will be leased
in a capacity to annoy or injure them
the executive not only dispenses the
honors but holds the sword of the
community the legislator not only
commands the purse but prescribes the
rules by which the duties and rights of
every citizen are to be regulated the
judiciary on the contrary has no
influence over either the sword or the
purse no direction either of the
strength or of the wealth of the society
and can take no active resolution
whatever
it may truly be said to have neither
force nor will but merely judgment and
must ultimately depend upon the aid of
the executive arm even for the efficacy
of its judgments
this simple view of the matter suggests
several important consequences it proves
incontestably that the judiciary is
beyond comparison the weakest of the
three departments of power
the celebrated montesquieu speaking of
them says of the three powers above
mentioned the judiciary is next to
nothing spirit of the law is volume 1
page 186 that it can never attack with
success either of the other two and that
all possible care is requisite to enable
it to defend itself against their
attacks it equally proves that though
individual oppression may now and then
proceed from the course of justice the
general liberty of the people can never
be endangered from that quarter i mean
so long as the judiciary remains truly
distinct from both the legislature and
the executive for i agree that there is
no liberty if the power of judging be
not separated from the legislative and
executive powers spirit of the law is
page 181 and it proves in the last place
that as liberty can have nothing to fear
from the judiciary alone but would have
everything to fear from its union with
either of the other departments that has
all the effects of such a union must
ensue from a dependence of the former on
the latter not withstanding a nominal
and apparent separation that as from the
natural feebleness of the judiciary it
is in continual jeopardy of being
overpowered awed or influenced by its
coordinate branches and that as nothing
can contribute so much to its firmness
and independence as permanency in office
this quality may therefore be justly
regarded as an indispensable ingredient
in its constitution and in a great
measure as the citadel of the public
justice and public security
the complete independence of the courts
of justice is peculiarly essential in a
limited constitution
by a limited constitution i understand
one which contains certain specified
exceptions to the legislative authority
such for instance as that it shall pass
no bills of attainder no ex-post-facto
laws and the like
limitations of this kind can be
preserved in practice no other way than
through the medium of course of justice
whose duty it must be to declare all
acts contrary to the manifest tenor of
the constitution void
without this all the reservations of
particular rights or privileges would
amount to nothing
some perplexity respecting the rights of
the courts to pronounce legislative acts
void because contrary to the
constitution has arisen from an
imagination that the doctrine would
imply a superiority of the judiciary to
the legislative power it is urged that
the authority which can declare the acts
of another void must necessarily be
superior to the one whose acts may be
declared void
as this doctrine is of great importance
in all the american constitutions a
brief discussion of the ground on which
it rests cannot be unacceptable
there is no position which depends on
clearer principles than that every act
of a delegated authority contrary to the
tenor of a commission under which it is
exercised is void no legislative act
therefore contrary to the constitution
can be valid to deny this would be to
affirm that the deputy is greater than
his principle that the servant is above
his master that the representatives of
the people are superior to the people
themselves that men acting by virtue of
powers may do not only what their powers
do not authorize but what they forbid if
it be said that the legislative body are
themselves the constitutional judges of
their own powers and that the
construction they put upon them is
conclusive upon the other departments it
may be answered that this cannot be the
natural presumption
where it is not to be collected from any
particular provisions in the
constitution
it is not otherwise to be supposed that
the constitution could intend to enable
the representatives of the people to
substitute their will to that of their
constituents it is far more rational to
suppose that the courts were designed to
be an intermediate body between the
people and the legislature in order
among other things to keep the latter
within the limits assigned to their
authority the interpretation of the laws
is the proper and peculiar province of
the courts a constitution is in fact and
must be regarded by the judges as a
fundamental law it therefore belongs to
them to ascertain its meaning as well as
the meaning of any particular act
proceeding from the legislative body
if there should happen to be an
irreconcilable variance between the two
that which has the superior obligation
and validity ought of course to be
preferred or in other words the
constitution ought to be preferred to
the statute the intention of the people
to the intention of their agents
nor does this conclusion by any means
suppose a superiority of the judicial to
the legislative power it only supposes
that the power of the people is superior
to both and that where the will of the
legislature declared in its statutes
stands in opposition to that of the
people declared in the constitution the
judges are to be governed by the latter
rather than the former they ought to
regulate their decisions by the
fundamental laws rather than by those
which are not fundamental
this exercise of judicial discretion in
determining between two contradictory
laws is exemplified in a familiar
instance it not uncommonly happens that
there are two statutes existing at one
time clashing in whole or in part with
each other and neither of them
containing any repealing clause or
expression
in such a case it is the province of the
courts to liquidate and fix their
meaning and operations so far as they
can by any fair construction be
reconciled to each other reason and law
conspire to dictate that this should be
done where this is impracticable it
becomes a matter of necessity to give
effect to one in exclusion of the other
the rule which has been obtained in the
courts for determining their relative
validity is that the last in order of
time shall be preferred to the first but
this is a mere rule of construction not
derived from any positive law but from
the nature and reason of the thing it is
a rule not enjoined upon the courts by
legislative provision but adopted by
themselves as consonant to truth and
propriety for the direction of their
conduct as interpreters of the law they
thought it reasonable that between the
interfering acts of an equal authority
that which was the last indication of
its will should have the preference but
in regard to the interfering acts of a
superior and subordinate authority of an
original and derivative power the nature
and reason of the thing indicate the
converse of that rule as proper to be
followed they teach us that the prior
act of a superior ought to be preferred
to the subsequent act of an inferior and
subordinate authority and that
accordingly whenever a particular
statute contravenes the constitution it
will be the duty of the judicial
tribunals to adhere to the latter and
disregard the former
it can be of no weight to say that the
courts on the pretense of a repugnancy
may substitute their own pleasure to the
constitutional intentions of the
legislature this might as well happen in
the case of two contradictory statutes
or it might as well happen in every
adjudication upon any single statute the
courts must declare the sense of the law
and if they should be disposed to
exercise will instead of judgment the
consequence would equally be the
substitution of their pleasure to that
of the legislative body
the observation if it prove anything
would prove that there ought to be no
judges distinct from that body
if then the courts of justice are to be
considered as the bulwarks of a limited
constitution against legislative
encroachments this consideration will
afford a strong argument for the
permanent tenure of judicial offices
since nothing will contribute so much as
this to that independent spirit in the
judges which must be essential to the
faithful performance of so arduous a
duty
this independence of the judges is
equally requisite to guard the
constitution and the rights of
individuals from the effects of those
ill humors which the arts of designing
men or the influence of particular
conjunctures sometimes disseminate among
the people themselves and which though
they speedily give place to better
information and more deliberate action
have a tendency in the meantime to
occasion dangerous innovations in the
government and serious oppressions of
the minor party in the community
though i trust the friends of the
proposed constitution will never concur
with its enemies
protest of the minority of the
convention of pennsylvania martin's
speech etc in questioning that
fundamental principle of republican
government which admits the right of the
people to alter or abolish the
established constitution whenever they
find it inconsistent with their
happiness yet it is not to be inferred
from this principle that the
representatives of the people whenever a
momentary inclination happens to lay
hold of a majority of their constituents
incompatible with the provisions in the
existing constitution would on that
account be justifiable in violation of
those provisions or that the courts
would be under a greater obligation to
connive at infractions in this shape
than when they had proceeded wholly from
the cabals of the representative body
until the people half by some solemn and
authoritative act annulled or changed
the established form it is binding upon
themselves collectively as well as
individually and no presumption or even
knowledge of their sentiments can
warrant their representatives in a
departure from it prior to such an act
but it is easy to see that it would
require an uncommon portion of fortitude
in the judges to do their duty as
faithful guardians of the constitution
where legislative invasions of it had
been instigated by the major voice of
the community
but it is not with a view to infractions
of the constitution only that the
independence of the judges may be an
essential safeguard against the effects
of occasional ill humors in the society
these sometimes extend no farther than
the injury of the private rights of
particular classes of citizens by unjust
and partial laws here also the firmness
of the judicial magistracy is of vast
importance in mitigating the severity
and confining the operation of such laws
it not only serves to moderate the
immediate mischiefs of those which may
have been passed but it operates as a
check upon the legislative body in
passing them
who perceiving that obstacles to the
success of iniquitous intention are to
be expected from the scruples of the
courts are in a manner compelled by the
very motives of the injustice they
meditate to qualify their attempts
this is a circumstance calculated to
have more influence upon the character
of our governments than but few may be
aware of the benefits of the integrity
and moderation of the judiciary have
already been felt in more states than
one and though they may have displeased
those who sinister expectations they may
have disappointed they must have
commanded the esteem and applause of all
the virtuous and disinterested
considerate men of every description
ought to prize whatever will tend to
beget or fortify that temper in the
courts as no man can be sure that he may
not be tomorrow the victim of a spirit
of injustice by which he may be a gainer
today and every man must now feel that
the inevitable tendency of such a spirit
is to sap the foundations of the public
in private confidence and to introduce
in its stead universal distrust and
distress
that inflexible and uniform adherence to
the rights of the constitution and of
individuals which we perceive to be
indispensable in the courts of justice
can certainly not be expected from
judges who hold their offices by a
temporary commission
periodical appointments however
regulated or by whomsoever made would in
some way or other be fatal to their
necessary independence
if the power of making them was
committed either to the executive or
legislature there would be danger of an
improper complacence to the branch which
possessed it if to both there would be
an unwillingness to hazard the
displeasure of either if to the people
or to persons chosen by them for the
special purpose there would be too great
a disposition to consult popularity to
justify our alliance that nothing would
be consulted but the constitution and
the laws
there is yet further and weightier
reason for the permanency of the
judicial offices which is deducible from
the nature of the qualifications they
require
it has been frequently remarked with
great propriety that a voluminous code
of laws is one of the inconveniences
necessarily connected with the
advantages of a free government to avoid
an arbitrary discretion in the courts it
is indispensable that they should be
bound down by strict rules and
precedents which serve to define and
point out their duty in every particular
case that comes before them and it will
readily be conceived from the variety of
controversies which grow out of the
folly and wickedness of mankind that the
records of those precedents must
unavoidably swell to a very considerable
bulk and must demand long and laborious
study to acquire a competent knowledge
of them
hence it is that there can be but few
men in the society who will have
sufficient skill in the laws to qualify
them for the stations of judges and
making proper deductions for the
ordinary depravity of human nature the
number must be still smaller of those
who unite the requisite integrity with
the requisite knowledge
these considerations apprise us that the
government can have no great option
between fit character and that a
temporary duration in office which would
naturally discourage such characters
from quitting a lucrative line of
practice to accept a seat on the bench
would have a tendency to throw the
administration of justice into hands
less able and less qualified to conduct
it with utility and dignity
in the present circumstances of this
country and in those in which it is
likely to be for a long time to come the
disadvantages on this score would be
greater than they might at first appear
but it must be confessed that they are
inferior to those which present
themselves under the other aspects of
the subject
upon the whole there can be no room to
doubt that the convention acted wisely
in copying from the models of those
constitutions which have established
good behavior as the tenure of their
judicial offices in point of duration
and that so far from being blamable on
this account their plan would have been
inexcusably defective if it had wanted
this important feature of good
government the experience of great
britain affords an illustrious comment
on the excellence of the institution
publius